# **ADR # 1, Group meeting 10/18/22** 
****
##
## *Context*

###### This was our first major meeting as a full group. We discussed the following:

    1. The advantages and disadvantages of proceeding with either Java or NetLogo
       as our primary programming langauge for the project.

    2. Potential functional additions to the project outside of the
       basic grid and cars system already available in NetLogo. These included
       trucks, pedestrians, road accidents, street closures, weather, diagonal streets
       and emergency vehicles.

    3. Repository structure, ongoing organizaion and management throughout the project.
##

## *Decision 1 - Language Selection*

###### We decided we would use NetLogo as the main programming language for the project.  

#### Reasoning:

    1. NetLogo already has a basic traffic simulation program available. We think we
       will learn more by trying to take the existing structure, and add to it using
       known design patterns, rather than coding everything from scratch in JAVA.

    2. NetLogo has provides has clean, natively supported GUI options.


#### Potential Downsides
    
    1. Language inexperience - None of us have any practical experience with NetLogo.
       NetLogo is however, based on both Scala and Java so we are confident we can gain
       functional familiarity quickly.

## *Decision 2 - Project Additions*

###### We decided we would rank order all the additions we wanted to have and work to implement them in order of importance.

#### Reasoning:

    1. We are not confident we can add all the functionality given the project timeline. 
       Once we have a better understanding of the languages and it's advantages / disadvantages 
       we will be able to make a more informed decision as to how much we can realistically include.

    2. We feel it is more important to have a well constructed and organized program, rather than one
       that is disorganized and hard to read but with lots of features.

    3. Being able to containterize certain functionality gives us the benefit of repeatedly
       having to restructure, refactor and redesign the code as we go. This will lead to better
       quality code and greater code familiartiy for each team member.


## *Project Outlook and upcoming deadlines*

###### A short list of current goals and agendas

    1. Meet with Dr. Laufer to discuss the change in project scope.

    2. Begin to individually familiarize ourselves with NetLogo using online NetLogo
       documentation as well as the pre-made traffic simulation.

    3. Compile and rank order a list of desired functional additions. 
    
 
